update MC7000 mapping info (#130)
mixxxdj/manual: source/hardware/controllers/denon_mc7000.rst

Denon MC7000
============

The Denon MC7000 is a professional DJ controller which has got 4-channel capability and dual USB connections. These two USB audio interfaces enable two DJs to play together. This controller includes Denon’s high build quality and superior 24-bit audio reproduction, makes this suited to both mobile and club DJs.

The dual 6" platters have a touch-capacitive design with rotational LED displays. The MC7000 has exclusive and dedicated Key Matching and Changing controls that deliver an unprecedented ability to instantly and harmonically match musical keys. The unit’s comprehensive, multi-input mixer also provides access to line/phono inputs from both authentic analogue (vinyl) and digital sources.

> 
> Links
> ~~~~~

Reviewer: I don't think we have a separate "links" headline in the other controller docs.

```suggestion
```

Author: easy to remove it if you don't like.

Denon MC7000

> ------------

Reviewer: Why did you change the header underlines? This broke the document tree:

![Screenshot from 2020-11-03 12-46-04](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1834516/97981528-b7dd3f80-1dd2-11eb-9a73-959e5ad2e47b.png)

Author: Never got there to modify anything. So when it changes this was not by purpose. Will correct it.

> .. versionadded:: 2.2.4

Reviewer: Could you please describe the functional mapping changes in a few words?

```suggestion
.. versionadded:: 2.2.4
.. versionchanged:: 2.3.0
   Please describe the changes in a few words here.
```

Author: i have now updated the changelog. I have used :hwlabel: initially but that looked like a mess. I'd prefer to keep it simple without :hwlabel: inside the changelog. Thanks a lot!

.. versionadded:: 2.2.4

Initial mapping release

.. versionchanged:: 2.3.0

> Fixed a bug for Vinylmode on Deck 4 and added new features, like library sorting, search through track with Jog Wheel, eject track from Deck, added waveform zoom, changed Parameter and Censor/Reverse/Spinback button mapping

Reviewer: Markup is still broken. This needs to be indented by 3 spaces and without a blank line between `versionadded` and the text block. I'll just merge this and fix this myself :D

Author: sorry for this - obviously i didnt understand how you wanna have this formatted

> 
> -  Fixed a bug for Vinylmode on Deck 4 and added new features, like library sorting, search through track with Jog Wheel, eject track from Deck, added waveform zoom, changed Censor/Reverse/Spinback and Parameter button mapping

Reviewer: It's still an enumeration, which breaks the markup ;-)

```suggestion
   Fixed vinyl mode on deck 4 and added new features, like library sorting, search through track with Jog Wheel, eject track from deck, added waveform zoom, changed censor/reverse/spinback and parameter button mapping.
```

.. versionadded:: 2.2.4

-  Initial mapping release

.. versionchanged:: 2.3.0

> 
> -  Bugfix: fix Vinylmode for Deck 4
> -  Feature: add mapping to sort library for BPM, Key, Artist and Title
> -  Feature: add Softtakeover for Pitch Faders
> -  Feature: add to eject track from Deck with Library Select knob
> -  Feature: add to search through track using Jog Wheel
> -  Feature: add Waveform zoom and reset to default
> -  Feature: change Parameter buttons to select star rating and color for tracks
> -  Feature: change of Censor and Reverse as well as Backspin access

Reviewer: Let's not make a full changelog, a few words suffice. 

```suggestion
Fixed vinyl mode for deck 4 and added various new features such as library sorting, jog wheel strip search, waveform zoom, censoring, backspinning, track colors, etc. 
```

-  XLR Booth and Master connections

Compatibility
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

-  **Mac** users should be just fine connecting the MC7000 and go.
-  **Windows** users need to install the latest Windows Driver from `Denon Download Site <https://www.denondj.com/downloads>`__.
-  **Linux** users need to know that the MC7000 internal audio interface
   is not available out-of-the-box for older Linux Kernels. You have to
   upgrade your **Kernel** to minimum versions LTS: **4.19.105** or
   **5.4.21**. All kernel versions **5.6.x** and following are supporting the device. 
   All recent Linux distributions are shipped with Audio support for the MC7000, like

>         -  Ubuntu 20.04 and 20.10

Reviewer: unexpected indentation.

Author: I cannot see what is wrong...

Reviewer: In RST, you can just indent by a random number of spaces.

13.       Master Level Meters                                              These LEDs show the Master Audio signal.
14.       :hwlabel:`MASTER LEVEL` knob                                     Turn to adjust the volume level of the master outputs.
15.       :hwlabel:`BOOTH LEVEL` knob                                      Turn to adjust the volume level of the booth outputs.
20.       :hwlabel:`PHONES LEVEL` knob                                     Turn to adjust the volume level of the headphones.
21.       :hwlabel:`PHONES MIX` knob                                       Adjusts the software’s audio output to the headphones, mixing between the cue output and the master mix output.
22.       :hwlabel:`SPLIT` switch                                          When this switch is in the :hwlabel:`ON` position, the headphone audio will be “split” such that all channels sent to cue channel are summed to mono and sent to the left headphone channel and the master mix is summed to mono and sent to the right channel. When the switch is in the Off position, the cue channel and master mix will be “blended” together.

>           :hwlabel:`X FADER CONTOUR`                                       Turn to ajust the slope of the crossfader curve, to the left for a smooth fade (mixing) or to the right for a sharp cut (scratching.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
          :hwlabel:`X FADER CONTOUR`                                       Turn to adjust the slope of the crossfader curve, to the left for a smooth fade (mixing) or to the right for a sharp cut (scratching.
```

Author: I recognized that but also another spelling issue. Don't worry about that. Cheers

========  ===============================================================  ===============================================================

.. note::

>    Input source selection, the :hwlabel:`LEVEL` meter, the :hwlabel:`MASTER LEVEL`/:hwlabel:`BOOTH LEVEL`/:hwlabel:`PHONES LEVEL`/:hwlabel:`PHONES MIX` knobs and the :hwlabel:`SPLIT` button are handled by the controller.

Reviewer: I just checked on my phone, this line isn't wrapped properly. Maybe this will help:

```suggestion
   Input source selection, the :hwlabel:`LEVEL` meter, the :hwlabel:`MASTER LEVEL`, :hwlabel:`BOOTH LEVEL`, :hwlabel:`PHONES LEVEL` and :hwlabel:`PHONES MIX` knobs and the :hwlabel:`SPLIT` button are handled by the controller.
```

User Variables
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Please check the :file:`Denon-MC7000-scripts.js` mapping file for user variables to:

-  activate NeedleDrop sensor while a track is playing (default: false)
-  set the Pitch Fader ranges in % to toggle between them
   (default: 4, 6, 8, 10, 16, 24)
-  Platter Ring LED mode: single LED on or off (default: 1). Can be
   toggled with :hwlabel:`SHIFT` + :hwlabel:`Deck`
-  Vinyl Mode on or off at Mixxx start which also triggers the Platter
   Ring LED function (default: 1)
-  Scratch Parameters (default: 33.3, 1/10, 1/10/32)
-  Jog Parameters (default: 1, 3)

Mixer Section
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. csv-table::
   :header: "No.", "Control", "Function"
   :widths: 10 50 250

>    "1.", "Input Selector Switch", "Set to the desired audio source from this channel. :hwlabel:`LINE/PHONO` will disable the corresponding Deck (switches off all LEDs and the controller will not send MIDI signals to control Mixxx). This allows the mixer to use an external source. :hwlabel:`USB` will turn the corresponding Deck on and allows to control Mixxx via USB connection."

Reviewer: This is very hard to read in plain text IMHO.

Author: yep. inside tables it is hard to format. This was better in my previous non-tabled view.

Author: I found a way that looks quite okay in the rendered page - even though the source looks a bit strange. But as the result is better we should keep it like this.

   "18.", ":hwlabel:`MIC 1 HI`/:hwlabel:`MIC 1 LOW` (left deck)", "Turn to boost or cut the high or low frequencies for Microphone 1."
   "18.", ":hwlabel:`MIC 2 TONE` (right deck)", "Turn to adjust the tone (high-low) for Microphone 2."
   "18.", ":hwlabel:`ECHO MIC 1&2` (right deck)", "Turn to adjust the amount of the echo effect for both Microphones."
   "19.", ":hwlabel:`TALKOVER MIC 1&2` (left deck)", "Press to use the “talkover” feature, which automatically reduces the volume level of the master mix when you speak into the microphones."
   "19.", ":hwlabel:`SHIFT` + :hwlabel:`TALKOVER MIC 1&2` (left deck)", "Press to activate/deactivate the 'Post' feature. When on, the microphones signal will be sent to the Booth Outputs. When off, the microphones signal will not be routed to the Booth Outputs."
   "19.", ":hwlabel:`ECHO MIC 1&2` (right deck)", "Press this button to activate or deactivate the echo effect on the microphones’ audio signal."

.. note::
   All functions are handled by the controller in hardware.
   The status of Mixxx will not be changed.

Deck Section
~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. csv-table::
   :header: "No.", "Control", "Function"

>    :widths: 10 90 250

Reviewer: This is wrong, the sum has to be 100%.

Author: Not necessarily. The default is 100% but any values are possible to define a ratio between the column width.

   Denon MC7000 (schematic view)

> ----

Reviewer: Why all these lines? Just use a table if you want that:

```rst
==========  ==========
Col Head 1  Col Head 2
==========  ==========
Row 1       Some text for the second column of row 1.
Row 2       Some text for the second column of row 2.
==========  ==========
```

Author: just wanted a separation of the single numbers. otherwise it is hard to read. Dont really need tables. would only complicate the things even more

Reviewer: Let's see how it looks once you fixed the deploy preview.

Reviewer: Hmm, I checked this branch out locally and removed them, to compare how it looks. IMHO, it's better without the lines. The main issue is that this is a very long list that is hard to navigate. How about splitting up the list of controls into different sections, like the Pioneer DDJ-200 mapping does?

https://manual.mixxx.org/2.3/en/hardware/controllers/pioneer_ddj_200.html

Author: > How about splitting up the list of controls into different sections, like the Pioneer DDJ-200 mapping does?

Could do so but a re-write will take me some time as I am busy on other things right now.

Author: > Please merge: [toszlanyi#1](https://github.com/toszlanyi/manual/pull/1)

Looks nice, not really shorter though but segments give a better overview - still needs a bit of tuning. Thanks a lot for your input on this and let me finish until Tuesday hopefully. Then I send another commit to this PR. Cheers!

Reviewer: You can add some `=` to the rightmost header. That will make the right column wider in comparison to the other two columns.

Author: I like the alternating row colors but the more I use the table view the less I like it. Unfortunately the table wont get wider in the rendered site adding `=`. Also on your DJ505 site I don't like the behavior of the table that you need to move the scrollbar to the right in order to see more than 6 words. This becomes worst in case the table is longer than the page height as you need to read first 6 words then scroll down, scroll right, scroll up again to find the initial point and read the last part of the description while the first part is invisible in column 3. Maybe you scrolled too far and then you only catch the first few words and the last but not the middle of the sentence. Really annoying. It would help to define an automatic line break for columns so that longer lines break into the next one into the same column. This makes it less annoying but increases the length of the document even more.

    .. hint::
        The LEVEL Meter is handled by the controller and not correlated to the output in Mixxx.

----

14. :hwlabel:`MASTER LEVEL` Turn this knob to adjust the volume level of the master outputs.

    .. hint::
        This is handled by the controller. The status of Mixxx will not be changed.

----

15. :hwlabel:`BOOTH LEVEL` Turn this knob to adjust the volume level of the booth outputs.

    .. hint::
        This is handled by the controller. The status of Mixxx will not be changed.

----

16. :hwlabel:`MIC ON/OFF` Press this button to activate/deactivate the microphones.

    .. hint::
        This is handled by the controller. The status of Mixxx will not be changed.

----

17. :hwlabel:`MIC LEVEL` Turn these knobs to adjust the volume levels of the corresponding microphone inputs.

    .. hint::
        This is handled by the controller. The status of Mixxx will not be changed.

----

18. **Microphone settings**

    **Left Deck: Mix EQ** Turn these knobs to boost or cut the :hwlabel:`HI` and :hwlabel:`LOW` frequencies for Mic 1.

    **Right Deck:** :hwlabel:`TONE` Turn this knob to adjust the tone (high-low) of the Mic 2 audio signal.

>     **Right Deck:** :hwlabel:`ECHO (MIC 1&2)` Turn this knob to adjust the amount of the echo effect on the microphones’ audio signal. This works on both: Mic 1 and Mic 2.

Reviewer: Oh, don't worry, I'll fix the `hwlabel` implementation.

>     **Right Deck:** :hwlabel:`ECHO (MIC 1&2)` Turn this knob to adjust the amount of the echo effect on the microphones’ audio signal. This works on both: Mic 1 and Mic 2.

Reviewer: Fixes in #268.

-  activate NeedleDrop sensor while a track is playing (default: false)
-  set the Pitch Fader ranges in % to toggle between them (default: 4,
   6, 8, 10, 16, 24)
-  Platter Ring LED mode: single LED on or off (default: 1). Can be
   switched with SHIFT + Deck button

> -  Vinyl Mode on or off at MIXXX start which also triggers the Platter

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-  Vinyl Mode: on or off at Mixxx start which also triggers the Platter
```
We don't use all uppercase MIXXX, please also fix the other occurrences in this file.

Author: done

23. **Deck:** Selects which deck in the software is controlled by that
    hardware deck. The left deck can control Deck 1 or 3; the right deck
    can control Deck 2 or 4. Press and hold Shift and then press this
    button to trigger the Platter LEDs mode.

> 24. **Shift:** Press and hold this button to access secondary functions

Author: Good to know. What's the benefit using :hwlabel:`SHIFT`: over **Shift:** ?

> 24. **Shift:** Press and hold this button to access secondary functions

Reviewer: It enforces a consistent style when referring to labels on hardware. Some people wrote `Shift`, some wrote `SHIFT` or `[Shift]` or something like that. To the user, it becomes more readable as these are now emphasized by the stylesheet and they can now search for a button/knob/fader with that label on their controller even if the documentation does not have a schematic drawing with numbers.

Note that this only for *labeled* controls. Don't use it for Jog wheels when there isn't a label saying `JOG WHEEL` next to it.

> 24. **Shift:** Press and hold this button to access secondary functions

Author: Thanks for explanation. Is there a guideline I can read through? Staying with the Jogwheel example it states **<SEARCH>** next to it using the Shift button. So would I need to bring that up a) separately b) just as comment for Jogwheel description or c) within the comment for Jogwheel like :hwlabel:`SEARCH`: ? So to extend it ... What about generally about shifted functions that are labelled on the controller ? How to define them in the manual? Cheers!

> 24. **Shift:** Press and hold this button to access secondary functions

Author: The document is re-formatted. Unfortunately when building the manual locally with 'make html' i get error messages that hwlabel could not be used (WARNING: Unknown interpreted text role "hwlabel".) so to review the finished site is not always as good.

Also with this commit now all tests fail. Anything I can do about it?

> 24. **Shift:** Press and hold this button to access secondary functions

Reviewer: You need to need to install the dependencies (`pip install -r requirements.txt`) when you test locally. I suggest to do it in a [python virtual environment](https://docs.python.org/3/library/venv.html).

> 24. **Shift:** Press and hold this button to access secondary functions

Reviewer: After you push you can click on the deploy preview and check for errors.

> 24. **Shift:** Press and hold this button to access secondary functions

Reviewer: > Is there a guideline I can read through? Staying with the Jogwheel example it states **SEARCH** next to it using the Shift button. So would I need to bring that up a) separately b) just as comment for Jogwheel description or c) within the comment for Jogwheel like :hwlabel:`SEARCH`: ? So to extend it ... What about generally about shifted functions that are labelled on the controller ?

I think it makes sense to use

    :hwlabel:`SHIFT` + Jog Wheel

instead of:

    `hwlabel:`SEARCH`

I think that explicitly using SHIFT and the unshifted label makes it easier for the user to see what control you are talking about.

> 24. **Shift:** Press and hold this button to access secondary functions

Author: > You need to need to install the dependencies (`pip install -r requirements.txt`) when you test locally. I suggest to do it in a [python virtual environment](https://docs.python.org/3/library/venv.html).

I already have installed dependencies but now did again. "Requirement already satisfied:"
Still it doesnt like hwlabel.

`$ pip install -r requirements.txt
Requirement already satisfied: sphinx in /home/tobias/.local/lib/python3.8/site-packages (from -r requirements.txt (line 1)) (3.2.1)
Requirement already satisfied: sphinx-intl in /home/tobias/.local/lib/python3.8/site-packages (from -r requirements.txt (line 2)) (2.0.1)
Requirement already satisfied: graphviz in /home/tobias/.local/lib/python3.8/site-packages (from -r requirements.txt (line 3)) (0.14.2)
Requirement already satisfied: markupsafe in /home/tobias/.local/lib/python3.8/site-packages (from -r requirements.txt (line 4)) (1.1.1)
Requirement already satisfied: transifex-client in /home/tobias/.local/lib/python3.8/site-packages (from -r requirements.txt (line 5)) (0.14.1)
Requirement already satisfied: sphinx-rtd-theme==0.4.3 in /home/tobias/.local/lib/python3.8/site-packages (from -r requirements.txt (line 6)) (0.4.3)
Requirement already satisfied: sphinx-multiversion==0.2.1 in /home/tobias/.local/lib/python3.8/site-packages (from -r requirements.txt (line 7)) (0.2.1)
Requirement already satisfied: Jinja2>=2.3 in /home/tobias/.local/lib/python3.8/site-packages (from sphinx->-r requirements.txt (line 1)) (2.11.2)
Requirement already satisfied: babel>=1.3 in /home/tobias/.local/lib/python3.8/site-packages (from sphinx->-r requirements.txt (line 1)) (2.8.0)
Requirement already satisfied: packaging in /home/tobias/.local/lib/python3.8/site-packages (from sphinx->-r requirements.txt (line 1)) (20.4)
Requirement already satisfied: sphinxcontrib-devhelp in /home/tobias/.local/lib/python3.8/site-packages (from sphinx->-r requirements.txt (line 1)) (1.0.2)
Requirement already satisfied: sphinxcontrib-qthelp in /home/tobias/.local/lib/python3.8/site-packages (from sphinx->-r requirements.txt (line 1)) (1.0.3)
Requirement already satisfied: docutils>=0.12 in /home/tobias/.local/lib/python3.8/site-packages (from sphinx->-r requirements.txt (line 1)) (0.16)
Requirement already satisfied: alabaster<0.8,>=0.7 in /home/tobias/.local/lib/python3.8/site-packages (from sphinx->-r requirements.txt (line 1)) (0.7.12)
Requirement already satisfied: sphinxcontrib-serializinghtml in /home/tobias/.local/lib/python3.8/site-packages (from sphinx->-r requirements.txt (line 1)) (1.1.4)
Requirement already satisfied: Pygments>=2.0 in /usr/lib/python3/dist-packages (from sphinx->-r requirements.txt (line 1)) (2.3.1)
Requirement already satisfied: sphinxcontrib-applehelp in /home/tobias/.local/lib/python3.8/site-packages (from sphinx->-r requirements.txt (line 1)) (1.0.2)
Requirement already satisfied: snowballstemmer>=1.1 in /home/tobias/.local/lib/python3.8/site-packages (from sphinx->-r requirements.txt (line 1)) (2.0.0)
Requirement already satisfied: setuptools in /usr/lib/python3/dist-packages (from sphinx->-r requirements.txt (line 1)) (45.2.0)
Requirement already satisfied: imagesize in /home/tobias/.local/lib/python3.8/site-packages (from sphinx->-r requirements.txt (line 1)) (1.2.0)
Requirement already satisfied: requests>=2.5.0 in /usr/lib/python3/dist-packages (from sphinx->-r requirements.txt (line 1)) (2.22.0)
Requirement already satisfied: sphinxcontrib-htmlhelp in /home/tobias/.local/lib/python3.8/site-packages (from sphinx->-r requirements.txt (line 1)) (1.0.3)
Requirement already satisfied: sphinxcontrib-jsmath in /home/tobias/.local/lib/python3.8/site-packages (from sphinx->-r requirements.txt (line 1)) (1.0.1)
Requirement already satisfied: click in /usr/lib/python3/dist-packages (from sphinx-intl->-r requirements.txt (line 2)) (7.0)
Requirement already satisfied: six<2.0.0 in /usr/lib/python3/dist-packages (from transifex-client->-r requirements.txt (line 5)) (1.14.0)
Requirement already satisfied: python-slugify<5.0.0 in /home/tobias/.local/lib/python3.8/site-packages (from transifex-client->-r requirements.txt (line 5)) (4.0.1)
Requirement already satisfied: gitpython<4.0.0 in /home/tobias/.local/lib/python3.8/site-packages (from transifex-client->-r requirements.txt (line 5)) (3.1.8)
Requirement already satisfied: urllib3<2.0.0,>=1.24.2 in /usr/lib/python3/dist-packages (from transifex-client->-r requirements.txt (line 5)) (1.25.8)
Requirement already satisfied: pytz>=2015.7 in /home/tobias/.local/lib/python3.8/site-packages (from babel>=1.3->sphinx->-r requirements.txt (line 1)) (2020.1)
Requirement already satisfied: pyparsing>=2.0.2 in /home/tobias/.local/lib/python3.8/site-packages (from packaging->sphinx->-r requirements.txt (line 1)) (2.4.7)
Requirement already satisfied: text-unidecode>=1.3 in /home/tobias/.local/lib/python3.8/site-packages (from python-slugify<5.0.0->transifex-client->-r requirements.txt (line 5)) (1.3)
Requirement already satisfied: gitdb<5,>=4.0.1 in /home/tobias/.local/lib/python3.8/site-packages (from gitpython<4.0.0->transifex-client->-r requirements.txt (line 5)) (4.0.5)
Requirement already satisfied: smmap<4,>=3.0.1 in /home/tobias/.local/lib/python3.8/site-packages (from gitdb<5,>=4.0.1->gitpython<4.0.0->transifex-client->-r requirements.txt (line 5)) (3.0.4)`

> 24. **Shift:** Press and hold this button to access secondary functions

Reviewer: Maybe your branch is too old. Run `git fetch upstream` and then `git rebase upstream/manual-2.3.x`. Then reinstall the dependencies.

PS: Please use 3 backticks for starting/ending code blocks. I edited your comment.

    the current loop. Press and hold Shift and then press this button to
    create a Loop Out point at the current Location.

43. **< / > Param 1/2:** These are currently mapped to add/remove rating
    stars to the loaded track. Press and hold Shift and then press these
    buttons to change track color in the library.

>     *This section needs further development.* **HELP APPRECIATED**

Reviewer: What does this mean? Do you need help with documentation or with coding the mapping itself? 

If it's the the latter, does the mapping work as described here and just lacking additional features? I'd rather put a separate "Known issues" section at the bottom. If you really want to put this here, you should probably use a [Sphinx note](https://sublime-and-sphinx-guide.readthedocs.io/en/latest/notes_warnings.html).

Author: Thanks! It was meant to get help for the mapping code but I changed the text and mention there are no 2nd and 3rd functions on the PAD buttons.

Platter Ring LEDs are correlated with the :hwlabel:`VINYL` button.

>   - If VINYL Mode is set ON then the LED follows the 33.3 rpm value.
>   - If VINYL Mode is set OFF then the current track position is indicated by the Platter LEDs starting at the top.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - If vinyl mode is enabled, the LED imitates a turntable platter spinning at 33.3 RPM.
  - If vinyl mode is disabled, the current track position is indicated by the Platter LEDs starting at the top.
```

(Or use `hwlabel` for VINYL if you want tot keep it uppercase.
